---
name: Our Scouts
date: 2023-08-31
auth: Deera Wijesundara
desc: Maliyadeva Scout Group is one of the oldest and leading scout groups in Sri Lanka; consisting of 6 different sections... 
tags: Scouts, Clubs, Scouting
---

Maliyadeva Scout Group (Sinhala: මලියදෙව බාලදක්ෂ සමුහය) is the scout troop of Maliyadeva College, Kurunegala, Sri Lanka. Maliyadeva Scout Group is mainly consist of Cub Packs, Scouts Troops and Rover Crews. Maliyadeva Old Scouts Association (MOSA) is acting as the supportive body of the Maliyadeva Scout Group.

MOSA is a associate group of Maliyadeva College Old Boys Association.

## History

Maliyadeva Scout Group is one of the oldest and leading scout groups in Sri Lanka. It was started in the year 1922 as the 3rd scout group in Kurunegala District. The school buildings and the land were taken over by the Army in 1942 due to ongoing the World War II and all sports and extracurricular activities were interrupted. Maliyadeva Scout Group was then re established in 1960 and it was registered in Sri Lanka Scout Association.

In 1992 Scouting Activities were suddenly stopped and again restarted in 1995. This new start created a new chapter in the history book for the Maliyadeva Scout Group.

Maliyadeva Scout Group has had many victories in her pride history while producing large number of President's Scouts to the Sri Lankan nation every year. In 1998 Maliyadeva Scout Group achieved the climax of the victory by being the scout troop which produced the 2nd highest number of President's Scouts on a National Level. Maliyadeva Scout Group has an eternal name on hiking and exploring for the last two decades defeating all the other troops in Sri Lanka in most of the hiking competitions. Maliyadeva Scout Group calendar includes two exploring seasons per year which has resulted in turn a full quenching of the thirst for adventure and has also contributed to making many lovers of nature.

Maliyadeva Scout Group consists of 6 sections.

 - Maliyadeva Old Scouts Association
 - Singiti Scouts
 - Cub Pack
 - Junior Scout Troop
 - Senior Scout Troop
 - Rover Crew
 - Maliyadeva Old Scouts Association