---
name: maliyadeva.lk Website Launch
date: 2023-08-31
auth: Deera Wijesundara
desc: Maliyadeva College proudly introduced its official website, maliyadeva.lk, marking a significant achievement. This accomplishment was the result of weeks of diligent work by the ICT society, encompassing website design, development, and meticulous planning. 
tags:, IT, ICT club
---

Maliyadeva Web Launch was a vibrant and action-packed occasion, teeming with a multitude of engaging events and activities. The highlight of the day was undoubtedly the much-anticipated launch of the school's official website, maliyadeva.lk.

This monumental day was the result of weeks of tireless dedication and hard work put in by the passionate members of the ICT society. Their collective efforts encompassed a wide range of tasks, from meticulously designing the website to the intricate process of developing its functionality. In addition to this, they undertook the herculean task of coordinating and organizing the entire event, ensuring its seamless execution.

The grand moment arrived when the Principal of Maliyadeva College, an esteemed figure within the institution, took the stage to officially launch the website. Before this monumental moment, Mr. Chanaka Walimuniarachchi, the dedicated teacher in charge of the ICT department at Maliyadeva College, delivered an inspiring introductory speech that set the stage for the website's unveiling. His words not only highlighted the significance of this achievement but also underscored the value of technology and education in the modern world.

The launch of maliyadeva.lk marked a significant milestone for Maliyadeva College, showcasing the school's commitment to embracing technology and providing a platform for students and educators to connect, share, and excel. It was a day filled with pride, enthusiasm, and a sense of achievement for everyone involved, emphasizing the importance of collaboration and innovation in the realm of ICT education.